# My_new_projects_AI
AI projects
Summary
This AI project target is to be able to identify for each main cosmetic scent (such as rose, pine, mint...) several set of images that have together a high probability to conjure the main scent when you see one of these AI-sorted set of images in a picture on a web page.

In this AI project we would use only images to trigger scents. It would not use a scent-generating device. You can include the project in the general category of "Digital scent technology" but a very specific branch of this technology which tries to generate scents memories by using only images.

Background
The problem I want to solve is the problem of e-commerce selling products with high olfative charateristics and that do not have currently the way to convey these scents to their customers. I want to be able offer them a list of image proxy for each of the scents they need to convey.

By putting their product inside a composition with the adequate images set, they will be able to summon the right scent memory by trying to use the scent experiences printed in the customer brain and triggered by the set of image.

The categories of products that would benefit of a solution for this problem are : cosmetics, perfumes, cooked dishes, and in fact any product with a scent, or mix of scents, that need to be sold on a e-commerce web site.

How is it used?
One concrete example : I am selling on a e-commerce website a candle that smells like lemon and pine. How do I maximize the probability to summon the right lemon-pine scent memory when the customer is looking at the picture of my candle?

We could say "put a lemon and a pine" behind your candle on a picture with the three items combined but it is far from satisfying and experience tends to show that a picture with a lemon-pie summon better the memory of lemon scent than the picture of a lemon. So what do I do if I am a e-commerce marketer to promote my lemon and pine candle using images?

Therefore my AI solution would give you the capability to sort any bank of image into adequate subsets that are usually triggering the memory of a set of scents when you are looking at these subsets of images. For example if I have 10 main scents in my products and a bank of 1000 images, I would like to classify my bank in 10 lists, one for each scent. And each list would contain a number of set of images that have a high probability to trigger the scent I am trying to recall.

By using my sorted bank of images, a e-commerce professional would be able to market efficiently its beautifully smelling products on the web by putting them in a picture that usually can generate the right scent memories he wants to generate for each product.

The AI solution I will describe below could be used in theory on any available bank of images for any list of scents.

Data sources and AI methods
The global methodology I would use is a combination of brain imaging and deep learning.

The steps I am seeing are :

1/ COLLECT

one big bank of images containging simple items in each picture (i.e : a lemon, a pine, a rose, a daisy....)
one list of main scents that can be easily transported and stored
a brain imaging set (not so easy)
a group of people that are ready to participate to the classification process
2/ RECORD BRAIN IMAGES FOR A BANK OF PICTURES AND A DIVERSE GROUP OF PERSONS

you use the brain imagery to show the images (and any subset of images you have the time to show - for example you try all the pairs)
you store the brain image generated by each picture for each subject
3/ RECORD BRAIN IMAGES A FIRST IMAGE BANK TO A SET OF SCENTS

you then have each sujects smelling all the samples of scents that you want to classify
you store the brain image generated by each picture for each subject
4/ AI CLASSIFICATION

using AI methods you identify the brain images corresponding to pictures that match the best with brain images corresponding to scents
the available AI algorithms for comparing pair of images are very mature and you can use very simple algorithms such MSE in python or very complex ones combining deep learning approaches (CNN, Siamese networks, deep neural networks...)
you will never have perfect match but you will have probable matches because your are trying to trigger memories of odours using analogy in the brain with images you see
the quality of the classification will evidently depends of the numer of persons you are able to put through this brain image recording process
the efficiency of the classification will depend too of the content of your bank of image : maby your bank is not able at all to generate this right scent memory and your best match will be a very distant match with the brains area activated which are not the right ones whatever the picture you show to whatever the person in your group.
5/ GENERALISATION

when you have reached your first classified bank of image you can use it to classify a new bank of pictures using the same AI methods of image similarity without having to records any brain of any person : you are just trying to use a new picture (or a set of pictures) which have sufficient similarity with one set of your original bank in order to get a high probability of trigerring a particular scent memory to a maximum of potential customers.
Challenges
You need a lot of subjects to generate good results and you need brain imaging systems so the initial classification would be time-consuming and expansive. But my idea is to classify an "proto-bank" with brain imaging which would be used to classified other banks of pictures with only AI methods and therefore it will reduces the costs for a new bank of images that has not already been classified through brain imaging : you use only your proto-bank and the new bank.

But the main challenge I see is to find the right diverisity of people that will maximize your results. All this project is based upon the scientific knowledge that a specific image you are looking at it able to trigger the memory of a scent (similar to madeleine de Proust) and therefore you need the right memories in the brain of the persons that will volunteer for the recording. But to get the samed memories than the ones of your customers you need to compose thoroughly your sample of people : the same culture, the same background, similar experiences, etc... If you are using a sample of people that have never smelt a lemon you will get nothing whatever the pictures in your bank.

You can simplify this challenge by marketing : if your product is targeting one very specific segment of customers you will select your sample of people only inside this specific segment of customers and you will have higher probabilities of triggering the same scent memories by seing the same picture between a customer C and one person of your sample... But everything there is based upon similarities and not identities.

What next?
It seems that the main focus in 2021 is to try to generate scents by digital-devices and not by pictures therefore my project would not get the most help firstly but I think that it will come because as a customer I prefer something very simple such as the right set of pictures than putting an electrod in my nose to get the actual scent of having a sample of scents to use in my own room.

Maybe we could find a bank of images already classified into "the-right-picture-for-the right-scent" through brain imaging and then the project would easily kickstart because it would only be a python project having an input unclassified bank of pictures and an output classified bank of pictures thanks to comparison with your proto-bank.

Acknowledgments
I want to thank my loved wife who is the creator of an e-commerce company creating and selling natural cosmetics and has forever be faced with this business problem of triggering scents without any scent on its website. Thank you my Dear for having given me this business problem. I dot not have the applied AI solution but I know that it will exist someday because it is not so difficult using the above technics, it requires just time and money :-)
